CSCI 260 Fall 2014: Lab 7: Hashing

You are provided with a file of mouse genome data. The keys for searching a database are going to be
the markers in the mouse genes. Your task is to experiment on this data to see if the keys "cluster"
under Closed Hashing, using various hash functions, and Linear Probing. You will devise a hash function
to test, based on the ordinals of the characters in the key. The keys are in a file called MRK. You can
see that they are fairly short (about 13 characters) strings.

1. Compile and test the program given. Try it on table size 151 , with 70, 100, and 145 keys.
What number of collisions do you report? Fix the program so it correctly reports the number of entries.
2. Change the program or write your own so it opens the file MRK and gets its keys from there; also
change it so that it no longer uses a "data" field, only a key. Test it again. Using the given hash
function, what number of collisions do you get on 50, 70 and 90 keys from the data file?
3. Change the program so that it uses the hash function we discussed in class: adding the ordinals
of all the characters, modulo the table size. In giving each letter an ordinal value, what works as
a computation? You may want to check the ascii table at www.asciitable.com. Again test it on 50, 70
and 90 keys in a 151-size table. What are the results?
4. Check that statistics are properly computed.
5. How is 'offset' used to enable linear probing?

Make the program collect data about how many collisions it encountered, on average and the maximum number.

You may write your own code, or use the following as a basis: closedhash.C.

You can cp these two files, MRK and closedhash.C, using the following command:

cp -r ~gpruesse/public_html/teaching/260/labs/hash_pub .

Test your code thoroughly.
You should demonstrate for me in the lab, either this week or next, that you have it working, but your
code will not be graded for style. Your code must be your own (except that you can use the code provided
as a basis). Commenting is up to you.

You can print in the lab using the command
lpr -Pcsci-lq filename

